hi guys in this story I'm going to be
going over a basic menu system and how
to display it on the screen and access
the different pieces to it if you wanted
different buttons or whatnot so we'll
just go to in or code real quick so
we're gonna need to create a variable
for GUI enabled this will make it so if
the GUI is displayed on screen or not
displayed on screen so it started the
game we're gonna set that to false so it
didn't show up and our update function
we are going to add in if you press down
the end key it will either enable or
disable the key depending on what is
pressed and you can just use that simple
code to do so so and then we go down to
our on GUI function this is where
different things like GUI buttons and
GUI labels and whatnot is handled so if
GUI is enabled so that pretty much just
means do we enabled is true without
adding equals equals true to it and then
we can create a simple button so it will
create a GUI button it'll create a
rectangle size is located here for the
length and height for it
and so yeah this is where you want to
actually display your GUI button on the
screen so for the width we'll take the
screen width so whatever your window is
adjusted to it'll take that and divide
it by 2 so it'll Center it same thing
for height so if you are creating a game
where you want the user to be able to
adjust the window you don't want the GUI
to get offset so we'll just use the
screen to tell where where it is so for
this one yeah it divides it by 2 and
then it - is by 40 because we're gonna
be putting these in a like a row and
yeah so this one's by 40 20 and that's
just yeah normal amount so this one will
be on top the middle and bottom and then
if we press exit then it will close this
whole menu so it's pretty basic so if
you click on a certain button you can
put code in here so you can put whatever
code you want so it just says if I click
on this button it ain't activate this
code you can make different menus pop-up
if you wanted so I mean 4 options you
can make a
like a um another GUI pop-up for your
actual options like for video options
and stuff you can adjust different
things in game if you wanted to do for
audio you can adjust the volume of
certain objects in your game and stuff
like that so that's pretty much the
basics of a standard GUI code I might go
into this a little bit more and do a
more advanced one in the future with
like sliding buttons and our sliders and
different buttons and stuff like that
but for now you're just gonna throw it
on your main camera or whatever you want
it's probably the best throat on your
main camera and we can go ahead and hit
start so if I go and press n you'll see
my little menu pops up if I press n
again it'll go away same if I click exit
it'll go away and you see how the GUI
centered if I were to adjust this screen
it would stay centered and stuff so yeah
you can click with either the left or
right mouse button I would probably need
to disable the ray casting for these
buttons because my character moves and
everything still when I click on it but
if I right click it just does that but
yeah so it's a basic way to setup a menu
um you can attach different functions to
when you click a button and stuff or you
can just enable a different GUI to pop
up and take take up the screen and uh
have different buttons in there that you
can click on and adjust different
settings but that's the basics for now
I'll try doing a more advanced tutorial
later but yeah